 

 

 

BOARDING SCHOOL

Well those happy days, like any days, happy - or unhappy days for that matter - came to an
end; in my case with a bump, because this is where | went to boarding school in Salcombe. For
what reason | was taken away from Modbury school, and how they managed to find the where-
with-all to send me to a private school, | know not, but to Hazeldene | went. | suppose on reflection
that Doc realised that my education was leaving a lot to be desired. There were three of us from
Modbury school that ended up at Hazeldene, each as hopelessly behind as the next - Miss White
called us dim, stupid, spineless (interesting one that) hopeless and un-teachable, and those are
only the names | remember. Miss White was fortunately only a junior teacher. She really, really did
look like a monkey by the way. She taught languages and sewing; she was always so disgusted
by my efforts at French and German that she could not even find it in her heart to compliment me
on my sewing which must have been O.K. | was always a blouse or apron or something ahead of
the others and if she didn’t like a seam, out it came. Of course | was always ahead with my
German, because of having learned it when small, but she didn’t appreciate the Viennese part,
and would only say | had the most appalling accent she had ever heard! The school was run by
Miss Surman - academic department, and Miss Wheatherston — other. It was to Miss
Wheatherston that you went to when you thought that you also had caught mumps, which | did in
the fullness of time, for the second time. | rather think it was a very good school. | actually started
learning to learn there, and began to enjoy the precision of geometry and the way it fell together
provided that you knew the things that the previous pages said that you must learn. Miss Surman
was marvellous with Shakespeare, History, and Scripture. In English school style they called me
Ridgy short for Ridgway. ” Yes Ridgy “ she said a few times near the end of my time there, “I think
you are beginning to get the idea”. Unfortunately | didn’t get too far with the ‘idea’ because my
people ran out of silver to sell and | left at the tender age or 16. This was a problem for all because
| had not taken, nor, as was required by the state, passed, my school leaving certificate. |
remember Miss Surman saying that she would simply have to say that | was ‘school leaving
certificate standard’.

They were a nice bunch of girls there and in a way | enjoyed it, but | have always been
homesick when away from home, and still am up to a point. Our suitcases were kept in an attic
and about a week before the end of term came down for packing. | can remember the excitement
of that occasion, and similarly | remember ruining the last week or so of my holidays dreading
going back. Our generation really appreciates the way teaching has changed throughout the
years, and now one of the things that teachers first do, it seems, is see that children enjoy school,
and mostly they do.

20
