LA
Doc was born Albert Edward Augustus Ridgway and he was born in Glasgow in Scotland. |
think his mother was a small lady, and was French. She had many children. | know nothing of the
father, or any of the other children except Hector, for Hector | think it was that Doc said was the
father of the quite famous colonel in America, but no one was sure about that. Doc was a brilliant
guy. | think it must have been almost from birth. He won a scholarship to Edinburgh University
where he studied - either separately or consecutively electrical and mechanical engineering.

THE FAR EAST

Doc's training took him eventually to the Far East. The names | remember hearing about were
Burma, Borneo, Java and Sumatra. | suppose it was here that he worked with the Ghurkhas for
whom he had the greatest respect. | think that was a bit to do with their size and this will be
because Doc was a very small man.

It must have been before going to the Far East though that he fought in the Boer war. A
piddling little war he called it.

On one of his long leaves back in England he married someone whose name | never knew.
He took his wife back with him. In those countries during the monsoon season the women were
sent up into the mountains to live. She did not take kindly to this, so returned to England. T hey had
a son George. No relation to me of course but regarded as my half brother.

He trained at Charring Cross hospital and was also a doctor. It seems George, poor guy, was not
as brilliant as Doc, and was always a bit of a disappointment to him. He married a French lady,
Elaine, and they had two children, a girl and a boy. | met George only once - after Doc died. He
seemed very nice indeed. He had greyish eyes like Doc.

1 do not know much about what Doc did in those Far East countries but | seem to remember that
he was responsible for laying the electricity ahead of the railways as they needed electricity for the
laying of the rails. | remember also that they had a lot of trouble with monkeys, who kept getting
themselves fried, and bunging up the works in the process. On one other of his long leaves he
took a course in law because he said he found himself in the position where he needed to advise
people on all matters of law.

Doc had not been in the Malay States very long - and | don't know what he termed ‘not very
long' - before he realised that dwelling in that place meant an early grave for white people. So after
investing all his money in the rubber plantations because they were producing this up and coming
material which was in great demand, he headed home.

BACK HOME TO LONDON

It was then that he decided to become a doctor. He signed up at Charring Cross hospital,
and did that. He must have done very well indeed because he was quite well known by the other
doctors as a gynaecologist and obstetrician. He was either, and | don't know which, a Master or
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons. Plus, as | think was common in those
days, he had his degree in pharmacy. In fact | remember him telling me that he was one of the last
doctors to have to do pharmacy. ! am not sure that they did a specialist training in gynaecology
and obstetrics in the 1920's, but his expertise in these branches was certainly known and highly
regarded by his peers.
After he put up his 'brass plate’ outside No. 85 Inverness Terrace and waited for patients, other
doctors sent him difficult midwifery cases. He had them staying in 85 where he saw them through
the birth. This seems a bit strange to us these days but | believe that was how it was. He had his
own methods, which were maybe a bit unconventional. | know this because when my mother

5

 
