 

materials in the foundations, and two chimney stacks of the lovely-big-house-that-never-was. |
think these things embittered him somewhat. My folks did try to get some compensation for this lot
after the war, but unsuccessfully.

PICKIN P THE PIECES

Even now, as | think back, | can hear the “clink clink clink” of the heavy hammer and chisel
as Doc broke away each brick and cleaned it up to build on to the garage house that we were
living in. It seems impossible that anyone could have gone all that way down to the Wonwell river
and bring sand back in a wheelbarrow to mix cement. This however, is what Doc did. | can well
remember him doing it and it is a very long way, with hills up and down. The pantry was the first
room built on and | suppose building sand for private use was simply not available at that stage,
but the sand from the river did not work very well due to the fact that the river was tidal quite a way
up. The walls of that little room bled salt for ever. | suppose my mother nagged for it, and Doc built
it this way, against his better judgement. It can’t have been easy living in one room. No electricity,
no fridge, and no local shop around the corner. Groceries were ordered by phone weekly from
Modbury, and delivered. The butcher - complete with blue and white striped apron - came around
with his van; the baker called once or twice a weekand a local farmer delivered the milk. The
latter's name was Donkin and he had a particularly moist lisp, and can you believe it, he charged
sixpence for a pint of milk, and we never called him anything but ‘Stlictlpence’. Later the local shop
got a deep freeze — great excitement, but in the early days it was very basic.

All in all Doc built on, besides the pantry, a hall and porch, a bathroom and a large kitchen-
cum-livingroom with a Rayburn stove. This he did, all on his own although Hilde would help from
time to time when she was around.

| can remember a building inspector coming to do his thing, quite alarmed because the local
doctor was doing goodness knows what in the way of construction and | remember Doc being
tickled pink because he couldn't fault anything.

12
