 

 

 

 

On understanding Kingston, one must remember that travel was not what it is these days, and
besides normal small village tendencies to regard everything that you do not know as strange, or
downright bad, as | say, we were a motley crew. South Devon did not go in for goats, so many had
not seen one. Certainly Pekinese dogs were not an everyday sight, even a canary was somewhat
rare in isolated district places back then. We were regarded as foreigners to the day we left 21
years later. We had Doris from the village working for us in those early days. Hilde insisted that
she and any other villagers that she had anything to do with called me Miss Bee-Ann. This fact
coloured my relationship with many of my peers and their parents for most of my stay there. The
fact that Gabberwell, for this is what we called the house / smailholding, was a little bit out of the
village, added to its mystique. The local residents called it the house on the hill. But regardless of
the natural suspiciousness of the rural English, we did have two Germans (well, Germans to all
intents and purposes) in the household and England had just started a war with Germany. Then
there was this devilish creature with a beard prancing around the place. "They say it is a perfectly
natural farm animal in some places, but neither my father nor grandfather found such a weird
creature necessary", was the generally held opinion.

We had our ways for finding out what the generally held opinions were. Any visitors from
elsewhere that we had, were sent to the local pub and there they would just sit quietly and listen to
the local gossip. One conversation - after Doc had treated one of the farmer’s cows for some
udder complaint with Bonnies Blue, an application much used in those days for fungal infections -
went like this. "E in af a funny old doctor that one, e been an painted all of faaarmer Frood's cewws
tits blue."

Other livestock included two calves’ Molly and Fanny, Geese, and a lamb with a ribbon

around its neck. When the lamb was a baby it was my job to feed it from a bottle, so of course it
quite believed that we were bound in an unbreakable relationship - we played well together, and
she would come in the house with me time to time. Probably winter then intervened and, come
next summer, the time naturally came when my mother left the door open, and next found a full-
grown sheep lying resplendent on the sitting room floor.
The calves were around growing quietly long before we became resident, and were forever
escaping. Doc had to chase and retrieve them when he came down. It is told that he presented
quite a picture haring around the lanes in his doctor's pin stripe suits chasing a cow or two. | don't
think that anyone in the household was all that used to farm animals actually. Before the cows
were mature enough to supply milk, the goat was! What a performance trying to get milk out of
that extremely reluctant goat.

Time came when the ‘powers that be' ordered that no one who was not English should live
within so many miles of the coast. That of course included Hilde. | don't think anyone bothered
much about Betty. So Hilde had to be sent away. | really don't know what was done with these
folk, but | think they merely had to live inland. Anyway Hilde, seeing she had fled before Hitler,
thought this to be unjust persecution; which in some ways it was. | believe she was just about
suicidal, being by this time very fond of our family, although she and Doc fought like cat and dog
most of the time. | think they were both jealous of my mother's attention.

This is where another aspect of Doc comes in, because due to his extra-ordinary influence,
he got her into a munitions factory - of all things. And more to come. That was only a stepping
stone, for he ended up getting her into the W.A.A.F. in the medical corps. Hilde battled a bit in the
air force with her German accent and all - more persecution! But it seems that after a few
Christmas concerts where she donned a moustache, pulled her black hair down over her
forehead, strutted around raving and shouting in a fair imitation of Hitler, she was more or less
accepted by her peers.

9
