 

 

. a |

DEVON, THE BEGINNING.

The spot in South Devon was a small village 18 miles from Plymouth, 9 miles from
Kingsbridge and was called Kingston. The very place in Kingston was a field, a five-acre field
owned by a Rogers, | think 'Old Rogers’. There were of course many Rogerses. He didn't at first
want to sell his field, but when - | think one hundred - nice new pound notes were laid out on the
table, it is said, he changed his mind. It seems reasonable to suppose that the plans were all
drawn up in London, but | am not at all sure that that is what happened. | still have one or two of
the sketches from the architect. Work commenced, local labour was employed with, | think, Leslie
Troupe in charge. Beautiful timber was ordered from Canada. The sewage system was all laid out,
the foundations and a couple of chimneystacks built, and the garage built. My mother bought bales
and bales of heavy linen for curtains, bedspreads and the like. The months, and a year or two,
marched on. So did Hitler! ;

Over an intervening period time was spent between the two locations, with a practice to be
sold on the one hand and a large house to be built on the other. | was eventually sent to Devon, in
Hilde's company part of the time, the rest of that time | stayed with Lesley and Lena Troupe.

| do not know in what year the whole convalescent home thing drew to a grinding halt, |
think probably a few months into the 1940 - 45 war. Materials were simply not available for private
building any more, nor ships to transport timber from Canada. Everyone in England believed that
the war would very soon be over, so all this was supposed to be a temporary affair only. Lesley
went to war, where he died tragically somewhere of appendicitis!

After, | suppose, a considerable amount of soul searching, the decision was made to move
into the completed garage which had two upstairs rooms intended for a housekeeper and
groundsman couple. So the base room had an iron stove built into it, as well as a sink, and it was
turned into an all purpose living room. A toilet outside. For a bath a metal tub behind a screen was
used. Water was pumped by hand from an artesian well, and heated in buckets over Primus
stoves. For months this method was also used for all clothes washing, and in those days, my
mother reminded me years later, men, doctors certainly, wore starched collars.

It was a motley crew, our family, that descended on Kingston. There were my mum, and
Doc who was a rather small and most unusual doctor, Hilde - this foreign woman with a Germanic
accent, and Betty. Betty was Miss Shawbakka she was a little old Jewish lady, and was mentaily
deranged. Miss Shawbakka was a patient of Doc's and her family begged him to take her with him
to Devon. It was naturally a business deal, and because she provided a certain income my mother
rather tended to call her "bread and butter". | remember her only as a small person all in black with
white hair in a topknot. She was quite harmless, and spent her days walking from the house to the
gate and back. She had done, | believe, some secret service work in the first world war, and spoke
many languages. She was German, and ‘in extremis' would stand around giving herself up, and
saying "they are coming to take me away now, you know, oh yes, they are coming to take me
away”. | think she must have been with us a year or two before she died. | can remember that
during air raids my mother used to shove us under the kitchen table. This being the only place she
could imagine as safe should the house receive a direct hit from a bomb being dropped on the way
back from Plymouth. This could happen in order to lighten the load of the German bombers on the
return flight. This good lady never could understand the rationale behind being shoved under a
table in the middle of the night! Miss Shawbakka occupied the second upstairs room. Right,
beyond the five above mentioned, there was a canary in a cage, and a Pekinese dog. Added to
these was, very soon, a goat. | have no idea at all how the people, dog and canary all fitted into
that tiny house, | can only suppose that Hilde and | slept in the downstairs room. Hilde was not
there so very long at that stage.

8

 

 

 

 

 
