 

 

official collection point where Doc was involved, she just about had a stand up fight with every one
because they wouldn't let her take a couple. Dina and | also did a musical tour of the village with
my musical box and a toy piano. At the end of the tour we arrived at my home with quite a
considerable amount of remuneration, and my folks said how nice it was of us to do that for the
Prince of Wales Hospital in Plymouth; where it was promptly sent! They sent us such a charming
thank you letter. Also in mushroom season we would get up early and go and pick mushrooms
and sell them. We flatly refused to be parted from that money however, because we said, lots of
children did it, which they did. It was quite the thing to know the field where the best mushrooms
where to be found.

Then there was a weird incident. Just out of the village there was sizeable house almost
mansion-ish actually, in which lived a tiny little old lady called Miss de la Pole who kept stallions.
Anyway she died leaving no relatives and no will. This talk of no will, | suppose, went round and
round, and Dina and | read too many children’s adventure books, so we went off in search of a will.
This of course entailed breaking into the house, which we did and though a thorough search was
made no will was found. It was all a bit spooky. Actually we were quite pleased when the search
was over and we could get our of the musty house again. Once more back at my home we related
all. | can remember that an immediate solution to this problem did not occur to the grownups this
time. Anyway eventually my long suffering mother phoned the police and informed them that they
had better secure the house a little better, because if two small girls could break in, so could
anyone else.

Then | failed my eleven plus. It has been said in my hearing more than once, that it was
practically impossible to fail the eleven plus, but anyway | failed it. It was an important exam
because if you passed it you went on to a higher grade school - in Kingsbridge. If you failed it, you
went by bus daily to a lower grade school in Modbury, a small town five miles away. Dina also
failed, so off we went. | remember very little about what | did or didn’t learn there. All | remember is
that during the reading periods, unlike everyone else, | actually read. Also our domestic science
teacher was called Miss Spellacy and | shone at cooking and sewing. Also | was good at story
writing. During composition | had to read my stories to the class more than once. Once | got over
being travel sick after the bus journey every day, | was fairly happy there.

In England in those days there was this milk plan and lunch plan. Every child had to drink a
half a pint of milk daily, which was delivered to, and dispensed at, the school. We had to drink it
while being watched - not so bad during the Winter, but in Summer invariably sour, so you learned
to drink it while holding your breath, then you didn’t know the difference. Then every one had a
school lunch complete with pudding. If you had a note from your parents’ after lunch you could
give your note in, and go to town. By which time you were hungry again and would buy, for two
pennies, some chips wrapped traditionally in newspaper and consume those on the way back up
the hill to school. Sometimes Dina’s mother Dora would forge a note for me if | had neglected to
get one from home.

Is it not amazing how the human animal loves to fight. There was an absolute war between
those who caught our Bigbury bus, the Thurlston, or Brynston buses or others - you had better not
be caught talking to someone who was taken home on one of the another school busses.

15

 

hesketheiedkadiotnat Ff

Tk le lhe le mei a eal ela mei einai moc cable eS acl Ale ral in tell atom da ee boob

 
