 

 

syne od

4 hg ee

STAT TE TH Bah an a

APPY DAYS, AND HORSES

By these Modbury school days, the house at Gabberwell as it would finally be, was just
about complete. Doc was then sixty-six, which meant that he pulled down one partial house, and
built another in his early sixties - small but strong! My mother did a super job making mats and
covers for things with that linen that had been bought for the big house. She then worked hard on
a veg. Garden which was called ‘the kitchen garden!’ Gooseberries red and green, Redcurrants,
and Blackcurrants, the strong smell of Tomatoes, which we picked and ate like you eat an apple,
still reminds me of that veggy garden in Gabberwell. We also had a glasshouse, or greenhouse as
it is sometimes called, in which grew cucumbers. When you go into a hot house - another name
for it - and pick a cucumber it is often uncomfortably hot and humid in there, and as you put your
hand out and pick the cucumber, it will be found to be surprisingly cool to the touch - hence the
expression. She also of course had a flower garden. Both were an absolute joy to her. Doc built
what he called a’ Japanese arch’ which was a sort of doorway to a bower housing a garden seat.
Bridget left for school round about here. From Doc’s medical practice we had quite a few friends
by that time locally and in the neighbouring villages.

From considerably earlier than this we joined in with the harvest efforts, it was just about the
end of those everyone-climbs-in days because greater automation was soon to come. | can
remember taking large picnic baskets to the fields at lunch time, and the children played while
adults got dry hay in and made hayricks. Hilde was around for periods on and off these days, and
she, because of her great strength, would compete with the farm boys in the tossing of hay onto
the top of the rick, where another would arrange it to make the rick the right shape.

A lady and her son from just out of the village opened up a local cinema. My mother was
delighted, would inspect the poster to judge if it was to be a good film, if she liked the look of it, off
we would go. Doc often came if it was likely to be his type. This was an entirely new world to me,
and thus was born my love of films. They had a signature tune, did the two that ran this cinema. It
was the ‘Tritch Tratch polka’ and they would play it just before, and as, the lights went down and it
added to that feeling of excitement at the prospect of a three hour entertainment where the worid
as it was simply did not exist. The film was usually accompanied by a running commentary by one
of the locals “they be droiving that there o’ car dewn the road neew’ or “ ‘e be enjoying that there ol
sausage then.” Other than this if one wished to see a film or play you had to go to Plymouth.
Which of course one did from time to time for shopping and the rest. There was a bus once a week
on Thursdays. To Plymouth in the morming and home again at night.

We had wirelesses for our entertainment, of course. In the early days they had ‘wet
batteries’. These had to be charged in Modbury, and bringing them home by car was quite an
issue because the ‘wet’ was acid and was quite a problem if it spilt. Then later the normal dry
battery kind. There was no T.V. so serials and the like were listened to only. There was ‘Dick
Barton - Special Agent’ Dick had two assistants Snowy and Jock. | sent away for their
autographed photographs, the only one that | got back was from the player of Snowy, he did not
look a bit as | had imagined and brought me to an understanding of the acting scene with a bump!
Then there was ‘Children’s Hour’ where they ran serials like ‘Storm of Green Hillocks’ - | had
beautiful black Alsatian called Storm after the one in that story. During the time that so many
children had been evacuated to various places safer than London and the big cities, at the end of
‘Chidren’s Hour’ they would say “goodbye children” then pause for effect “everywhere” this just
about brought my mum, who was particularly fond of children, to tears. | have always since
thought that it was rather un-English actually.

Of these patients of Doc’s that became our friends, one family from Ringmore was the Nash
family. Mr. had some important lighting job at the Admiralty headquarters in London and the rest

16
